---
title: My Origin Story (or, How I Got Here)
blurb: How I decided I wanted to get into web development!
tags:
  - personal
type: draft
featured: false
---

In one of the Discord groups I'm active in, we started a new weekly discussion channel. Since it's the first week, the first question was a good introduction topic. And, since I share anything more long-form here, I figured it would be good to write it out here as well.

What was this question, you ask?

> How did you get into coding/tech/etc? What's your origin story as a coder/developer/engineer? Are there things that stick out as positive memories on your journey to where you are now? And are there things you wish you could tell your past self, or things you wish you'd done differently in hindsight?

So, without further ado - my tech origin story.

----

## The Beginning (Sort Of)

Growing up, the only thing I really felt "good" at was music. I was in choir from elementary school, and once I got to junior high, band started to take over and became my main thing. By senior year, I was first chair basically all year, got all the solos, and was generally the best in my instrument (flute). Everyone I loved, and everyone that knew me, knew me as being good at music.

So, when it came time for graduation, all I really had an idea about was band. I did well in my other classes, but everything was just something I was supposed to do, and nothing was all that interesting to me outside of writing. Mind you, I didn't have an idea of what I might *do* to make a living with music - I just knew I was expected to start applying to colleges, and I didn't really enjoy anything else as much. So music it was. And I got into one of the best music schools at the time - The University of North Texas.

I started out in music education, because I knew performance wasn't my thing (and I wasn't aware of any other majors around music). I didn't really want to teach, either, but it felt safer than performance. I liked playing in bands (especially marching band), but didn't really like playing solo in front of others. I did well enough with the education curriculum for the first 2-3 years. I made friends, did marching band, and got to learn how to play most of the other instruments which was the most fun part for me.

But eventually, I had to start taking courses on how to teach stuff to other people, and how to conduct, and I was forced to face the fact that I just....don't really like teaching. Or rather, I don't like being in front of people and leading / directing them. One on one, or in small friend groups, I'm good and love to share my knowledge and trouble shoot with folks. But being the center of attention? No thank you.

Unfortunately, that basically cut out my options. At such a big music school, I was a small fish in a big pond, and never did well enough performance-wise to stand out, and now was certain teaching wasn't for me. But I also was not one to quit something, and all I really wanted was to graduate and be done with school. Dropping out never felt like an option - it felt like failure, and it didn't feel allowed. So I switched to general music, so I could graduate fairly soon, and decided on a minor in marketing (because my mom told me if I switched I had to get a minor in something I could do for a job lol).

> To this day, this is my biggest regret. Leaving school, even without a degree, if you're no longer interested in anything is NOT being a failure. Honestly, I shouldn't have even been pushed into college when I first graduated, because I had no clue what I was doing. And now I have debt that I may never be able to fully pay off, for something I can't even honestly use.

Though while I regret the massive debt I gained, and the friends I drifted away from because I changed majors to something so general it had no purpose - I don't fully regret the experience. Going to school and starting to live on my own gave me a confidence I never had when I was younger. It helped me grow up into a functioning adult, and I don't think I would've gotten that if I'd stayed at home. Still - I don't know that the cost was overall worth it, even if I am glad for the experiences I had.

----

## After School

After I graduated with my Bachelor's, I drifted for a long time, career-wise. I worked in photo labs for awhile, and moved back to my hometown. I reconnected with my good friends from high school, and made new friends. I got to feel real acceptance as an adult, even though work was simply...work. I didn't care about what I did, though I have a natural inclination to work hard and learn.

Eventually I got a job as a receptionist for a high end piano store, which I enjoyed for awhile. The store I started in was typically really slow, and it was during this time when MySpace was at it's peak. This gave me my first real taste for web development and design - I started tinkering with my personal page. I loved being able to change the background images, adjust colors, create my own personal themes. I realized I was good at figuring out how to find the properties I wanted to adjust. I was just messing around and having fun - it never occurred to me that this was something a career could be made from.

Around this time is when I met my current partner, and he got me into photography (he was a photographer at the time). This gave me another creative outlet, and I started playing with editing photos and creating images. The things I wanted to do in tools like PhotoShop were so silly and small - twinkles in eyes, those black & white pictures with small pops of color. Again, I was just playing.

Eventually the girl doing my job at my store's main office left, and they asked me to go there and fill her shoes. I was busier most days, being in the main store - but there still aren't a ridiculous amount of people buying pianos. I started to get my creative fix from creating programs for recitals in Word, and was the troubleshooting guru for everyone - didn't matter if it was computers or phones or fax machines, I could always figure out how to fix it. They also helped me grow with my photography, allowing me time to go to my first conference and buying me some equipment so I could take photos of the pianos in store. I'm still so grateful to them for supporting me in that way, and giving me the space to continue learning and also providing back to them with quality photography.

I also started to realize just how good I was with tracking details and catching minor mistakes. I was the proof reader for everyone's writing; I did small accounting tasks like double checking deposits and finding missing charges in records. And I took on the task of making a complete inventory spreadsheet for all 3 locations they owned. We only knew what we had on hand by word of mouth between everyone - there was no single source of truth. It was a small company, even with 3 stores, but there were still miscommunications and numbers written wrong. So, while I went and photographed each piano, I also did a completely inventory check in my own notebook, getting key details (make, model, serial number, color, etc) and compiling it all together.

I...honestly enjoyed this? It gave me such a sense of accomplishment to compile everything, and I cleared up so many little mistakes! Someone would write one thing in a sales record, then we'd find the model still on a sales floor. And sometimes, pianos went to our repair department and weren't available for sale, which wasn't noted anywhere. So being able to create a spreadsheet that detailed where each piano was, if it was available, and getting the sales records cleaned up made me so happy.

----

## The Rough Years

Eventually, things took enough of a turn in the piano industry that we were having to start letting people go. I'd gotten so hooked on the photography and organization parts of things, that I kept trying to push for less reception time and more of the things I *liked* doing - which was not answering phones. And with only 15-ish people in the company....I was the most unnecessary one. I'd been pushing to not have my own job, without really being aware of it. So I was laid off.

I didn't really have a clue what to do after this. Because I was laid off I got to go on unemployment, but I had to be applying for jobs, and all I was skilled to do...was customer service. After all, the only work experience I had was in fast food, retail stores, and 1 office job. It was all I *could* do, experience-wise. I got a temporary job with a different university in my town, filling in on an office position for someone out for surgery for a few weeks. It was fine, but still sort of boring to me, and more phone and random people interactions, which were starting to get to me. The folks were nice, but when that gig ended and I eventually got called for another, short term position with them - I just couldn't do it. I was literally driving down the road towards the school, and felt such a tight ball of anxiety and unhappiness in my chest I had to pull over. I had to call and leave a message for the staffing person I'd been working with, and tell her I couldn't make it. It was an utterly unprofessional thing for me to do, and burned any sort of bridge I was building with them, but I just....couldn't do it.

After this, my partner suggested I work for his uncle's printing company. It was still customer service, but because it was family it meant basically no interview. They brought me in basically to go through their old records and prune things out - they had files from over 10 years ago, and were running out of space. I lasted all of 1 week in office before I told them I'd have to do my work from home or after hours. The attitude, tension, and overall feeling of everyone working there was just TOO MUCH for me. Luckily, they allowed this, and I spent a few months grabbing a cabinet drawer at a time, and sorting through things overnight at home.

But eventually, I was done, and they were tired of having me work on this. However I knew I couldn't handle being there. So we decided that I would start doing deliveries of finished products, and picking up items from vendors. This was honestly really enjoyable! I was only in the office for an hour or two each day loading and unloading the company van, and the rest of the time I was driving around. I was interacting with people, but as a delivery person it's surprisingly easy to not have it be too much. Plus, I actually enjoy driving, and it gave me a lot of time to think or listen to music or whatever.

During this time, I knew delivery driving wouldn't last forever, and I was still feeling unfulfilled in my work. I started really thinking about what the heck I wanted to do. I'd tried the photography thing to a point, and had a few friends pay for my work for events, but once it started to become *work*, it wasn't fun anymore. I knew I really wanted to keep it as a hobby, even if I was decent at it. I didn't know what else to do, other than that I did NOT want to go back to school.

All I really knew was that I enjoyed organizing things, and I was discovering that there were websites that offered free courses (or courses you could audit for free). My delivery work was only part time and by this point, my partner and I had moved in with his parents to help make ends meet, so I had a decent amount of free time. So I started taking courses. I did a few statistics courses (including one on baseball stats, which was fascinating but I've already forgotten how most of them were calculated lol), some data analysis courses, things like that. And somehow, I stumbled on the CS50 course on edX, from Harvard.

A lot of folks have heard of this course, but it's basically an intro to computer science course. They were putting all of the lectures online, and provided some projects and coursework that you could submit for free. It didn't count for any sort of college credit unless you paid for it and there was only some online support for auditors, but I wasn't worried about that - I just wanted to learn. I decided to try it out and see what I thought. And amazingly - it clicked pretty well! The lectures were fun and interesting, and I realized I was *getting* what they were talking about. The course starts your programming experience in C, which was completely new to me. It was definitely a challenge and I remember getting stuck a few times - but I also remember the same joy in completing things that I got from photography and organizing. Plus, I knew from a little research that this was actually a thing I could do for a career!

It took me a little bit longer than some, but I eventually completed the course and was super interested in finding more courses to learn programming from. At the end of the course, we'd started to get into PHP and MySQL, and we'd made a final project that was actually hosted online. My project (idea provided by my partner) was called Log O' Links - a site that simply let you save links to websites, with an easy way to copy the link. It was so simple and silly, but I worked so hard for it and was so proud at the time.

I did a few more data analysis and statistics courses, and then stumbled onto Free Code Camp. Their site gave me the real idea of building webpages - until now, outside of playing with MySpace designs, I hadn't really even thought about what went into making a webpage. The HTML and CSS stuff was fairly familiar already from my past...and then I started on the JavaScript.

It completely took me by surprise when I made my first little script and had something come to life on the screen. Until now, I'd written structure and styles, and that was nice - but now I could dynamically make the page respond to things. I was in love! This was something that touched all the bases for me - creativity, troubleshooting, critical thinking, joy. I knew you could do this stuff with PHP, but it had felt sort of clunky to me. JavaScript felt....*nice*. And I did really well with the algorithm challenges. Some were more difficult than others and I definitely struggled at times, but overall it was really *clicking* for me and I couldn't get enough.

Meanwhile, in work life, I was still making deliveries and avoiding the office at all costs. Tensions were always, always high there, attitudes were short, and I still couldn't handle it. But once I was in the car, things were different. I started listening to podcasts, and found a bunch of technical podcasts. Listening to actual developers sharing their stories and talking about their work made ME feel like I could be part of that group. I felt like I could someday be a developer.

But eventually, my basically father-in-law got really sick, and my basically mother-in-law (who was also one of the 3 main sales people at the store) was at home for almost a month. The other two begged me to fill in for her while she was gone. I wasn't crazy about the idea...but I also liked them, and with my BMIL gone the owner (my partner's uncle) wasn't quite so difficult all the time, and I could definitely have used more money. So I caved and decided to help out while she was gone. She came back for awhile after he started to get a bit better, but after a month or two, the owner and store manager basically quietly encouraged her to stay home with her husband and basically pushed her out. I was still very uncertain about staying in the sales role full time, especially since we lived with my partner's parents and it felt all around awkward - but again, we could use the money, and I'm a people pleaser at heart. I decided to stay.

----

## The Ending

So, for what eventually became about 6 years, I worked full time at the print shop, and learning programming in my free time. It was....some rough years, in general.

I learned a lot while working at the print shop. I got to work with the graphic designers, and learned a little bit of things to look for in decent print jobs and file troubleshooting. I learned a bit about production, and how to run the printers and use the cutting machine and various finishing products. But the majority of my job was customer service and sales - talking to customers, taking orders, calling people to pick orders up, dealing with upset customers or questions about order statuses, etc. There were only two of us at that point, as the other had become the full time store manager and accountant. It was a small shop, only about 8 of us total, so it was always busy and stressful. The owner still had anger and distrust issues, everyone still had super short tempers whenever literally anything went wrong, money was always tight, and everything was a fire to put out or try to avoid.

It wasn't all bad - there were good nuggets in between the terrible. My coworker was the best - she was a little younger than me, but we were close enough in age that we bonded, and since we were the ones taking most of the flack when orders weren't right for whatever reason, we had a mutual stress that bonded us even more. And I did get to work on more projects that involved organizing, and spreadsheets, and actually learned a lot of project management skills while keeping track of orders. But the stress was incredibly real, and the constant lack of trust, and faked support. It was a lot, and I wanted to leave for a very long time before I actually did.

In my evening hours, I was still learning programming with Free Code Camp, and various Udemy courses. In 2018, I thought I got my big break - I had signed up for a chance at a scholarship for a front end development degree through Udacity and Google, and I got it! I did the initial 3 month course with a ton of other people, and then was THRILLED when I got picked to be 1 of 1,000 that got to do the full course for free! It was focused on mobile web development, as at this point I'd been learning introductory skills for about 2 years and wanted to move more into intermediate skills.

The course was pretty good - I learn a bunch about accessibility and responsiveness, I learned about service workers and ways to have projects store data for offline usage. I got to meet some cool people in our Slack groups for other scholarship recipients. And I have a nice little completion award that I legitimately printed out and framed. :) But the one thing that disappointed me, that I had been most excited for, was the mentorship. The course had promised we'd get a mentor to go through the course with and be able to check in with regularly. I really wanted someone experienced that could guide me, and provide me some insight into how I could take these skills I had developed and actually get a job with them. But only about a month into the course, they ended up basically scraping that whole process, and I never got the support I wanted for that. It was a real bummer, and even though I did the courses afterwards for resume and cover letter tips - I really needed someone I could actually TALK to. And that wasn't ever able to happen.

2019 started to feel like a breaking point. The stress and discomfort at work had been weighing me down for a very long time; things were equally stressful at home since I was working for the "enemy" (basically lots of family drama between my partner and his parents and his uncle); and burn out was incredibly real. I'd been learning programming skills for about 3 years now, and had even tried to apply for a few roles here and there, but nothing was going anywhere and I felt lost and very alone. I had another course lined up I wanted to do, this time with Node, and spent my free time this year working on that and trying to connect more with other developers on Twitter. I knew a network would be important, but wasn't really sure how else to go about it.

Then 2020 happened, and with it the pandemic. Both of my basically in-laws are high risk individuals, and the management at work didn't consider the virus to be as big a deal as it clearly is. We eventually closed for a bit in March when everyone went into lock down, and the store was basically closed for about 2 months. They had 2-3 people still working from home or the office in their own, as since we were a printing company and also worked for a few hospitals and essential workplaces, we were considered essential too. And once they decided they needed to fully reopen again, I was given a choice - come back to the store, or be let go. They were putting up plexiglass on the counter to keep customers farther away and trying to wipe down counters, but I knew they still didn't really consider it serious, and I live with high risk people. Plus, the 2 months I'd been home had been really nice.

I did some calculations, and since I'm fortunate enough to not have kids or major bills, I realized I had enough money in my accounts to be ok until the end of the year. I was getting the tight ball of anxiety in my chest any time I thought of having to go back to that working situation. If I was ever going to take a chance and try to make this programming thing work - it might as well be now. Tech companies could still work from home. It wouldn't be easy, but it would be *possible*. Possible was all I needed. I decided to take the plunge. I told them I couldn't risk coming back, got my things and my last check, and I was on my free.

----

## The Rest

So - here we are. I've been searching for about 4 months now. I've found communities where I actually feel valued. I've learning and progressed more in these few months than I think I did in the previous 4 years. Finding work is still a struggle, but I've been offered more help from my basically in-laws, and will be able to sustain longer than I initially thought. I'm determined not to give up. Ideally, I'm looking to become a web developer - but I have a backup plan to look into tech support if it starts to look like it's necessary. I'm building more, learning more, interacting more, and generally doing all I can to make this into a reality.

I want to move out and fully support us again. I want to live somewhere new, and completely fresh. I want to have a career I feel proud of, something that fulfills me and allows me to feel like a genuine person. And I'm choosing to believe that I'm well on my way. Only time will really tell, but each day I'm doing all I can to make it so.

If you actually read all of this - thank you, from the bottom of my heart. I had no idea this was going to turn into such a novel, but it feels good to have the general timeline out there. Bless you all. ❤️
